Notes/TypescriptIntro.md, before:

### Types of Languages

- strongly typed languages --> java, c++, rust
- loosely typed languages --> python , javascrip , pearl
- In js we can change the type of the variable , where ever in cpp we cant change the type of the variable

- Strongly typed - we cant change the type of the variable
- Loosely typed - we can change the type of the variable

- In big companies we want very big type checking ( In production)
- In strongly typed , there are less run time errors , because code get error in compile time --> we catch error during compile phase. At the end if it compiles , it will do what it is supposed to do
- In loosely typed , there will be run time errors we can do anything what we want

- Javascript is a powerful language but lacks types --> so typescript was introduced

## What is Typescript

- Typescript is a programming language dev and maintained by microsofft
- #### It is a strict syntatical superset of javascript and adds optional static typing to the language
- providing types to variable is done by typescript to javascript

- code written in javascript will work in typescript , while code written in type script will not work in javascript

## How does typescript code Run?

- TypeScript code never runs in browser . Browser only understands javascript
- Typescript never runs at all line by line
- Typescript is a language that is something transpiled down to "javascript"

- main.ts -->(tscompiler) --> main.js  -->Runs in browser
- We only convert typescript code to javascript

Commit message:

Types in ts, TSC, tsconfig

Notes/TypescriptIntro.md, after:

### Types of Languages

- strongly typed languages --> java, c++, rust
- loosely typed languages --> python , javascrip , pearl
- In js we can change the type of the variable , where ever in cpp we cant change the type of the variable

- Strongly typed - we cant change the type of the variable
- Loosely typed - we can change the type of the variable

- In big companies we want very big type checking ( In production)
- In strongly typed , there are less run time errors , because code get error in compile time --> we catch error during compile phase. At the end if it compiles , it will do what it is supposed to do
- In loosely typed , there will be run time errors we can do anything what we want

- Javascript is a powerful language but lacks types --> so typescript was introduced

## What is Typescript

- Typescript is a programming language dev and maintained by microsofft
- #### It is a strict syntatical superset of javascript and adds optional static typing to the language
- providing types to variable is done by typescript to javascript

- code written in javascript will work in typescript , while code written in type script will not work in javascript

## How does typescript code Run?

- TypeScript code never runs in browser . Browser only understands javascript
- Typescript never runs at all line by line
- Typescript is a language that is something transpiled down to "javascript"

- main.ts -->(tscompiler) --> main.js -->Runs in browser
- We only convert typescript code to javascript
- if we have any error the ts to js transpilation will fails and returns error
- i.e., We have added compiled checks to the javascript --> so we can write catch run time errors , we can catch durimg the compile time
- TSC - types : esbuild , SWC

- tsconfig.json --> says how do we convert typescript file to js file

- command : tsc -b --> transpiler a.ts to a.js

- Typescript is only syntatical language, so we cant run ts file , at the end we only run .js file


## Basic types in TypeScript 

- number, string , boolean, null, undefined
- How Typescript benefit --> as codebase increase , it will be helpful to know what it expects

- Typescript can infer the return type :: type inference 
- a: number , b:number --> returns : number 
- good practice to write the return type
